# graduation-project
Diagnosis of FTC/FTA via plasma extracellular vesicle and cell-free RNA
Follicular adenoma (FTA) and follicular carcinoma (FTC) are follicular cell differentiated tumors, consisting of microfollicular structures surrounded by cubic epithelial cells. FTA is a kind of benign thyroid tumor while FTC is a kind of malignant thyroid tumor. They have similar microscopic characteristics in morphology and are difficult to distinguish in pathological diagnosis. Therefore, it has become a clinical requirement to find biomarkers that can distinguish them well in body fluids.  
Many types of extracellular RNAs (exRNAs) can be stably detected in human plasma, which can avoid degradation by being wrapped in extracellular vesicle (EV) or binding to RNA-binding proteins (RBP). It is a potential biomarker for identifying tumors because the transcriptome profile of tumor tissues is significantly different from that of normal tissues. Therefore, we can detect exRNA in patients' plasma to find RNAs that can better distinguish FTC and FTA as biomarkers for cancer diagnosis.  
We used the sequencing data of small RNA and long RNA from plasma and EV of FTC and FTA patients from West China Hospital to analyze the difference of their RNA expression levels in FTC and FTA patients and obtained some differentially expressed genes in FTC and FTA patients. At the same time, we obtained two kinds of RNA libraries in plasma: total cfRNA and evRNA obtained by purifying EV in plasma respectively. Then, we analyzed the difference of the expression levels of total cfRNA and evRNA in patients and obtained some RNA enriched in EV. Then, the functional enrichment analysis of these RNAs was conducted to obtain some cellular pathways related to FTC and FTA differential genes and we try to explain their biological significance. Finally, some machine learning methods were used to select RNAs with good discrimination effect and evaluate its effect. Part of RNAs with good classification effect were selected from miRNA and long RNA datasets for subsequent function verification. This study may provide an effective method for clinical diagnosis of FTC and FTA.
